What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

an empty git repository is created. Needs to be done to allow version control.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

it is an intermediate area before commiting working files to the repository.
allows you to commit only files where logical breakpoints and changes have been done.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?
Add files corresponding to one logical change to the staging area before commiting.
Can continue to work on the working directory thereafter
just be sure to commit before adding the same file to the staging area.


What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

1) When you need to make experimentations which you are not sure if they will work
2) When you need to make variations of the same program but will want to retain the previous version. (Eg italian mode; easy mode)

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
Really should create a branch when you are experimenting on prior commits to avoid detached head. 
1) Checkout prior version. 
2) Create branch and work from there.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
merge changes together. Point to take note, if u try to merge files with 2 lines inconsistent with each other, it will result in a merge confilct. This is when the changes happen in the same area.

Fixing Merge conflicts:
1) Merge branches together. Terminal will indicate that there is a merge conflict
2) Look into the file with the conflict. Look for <<<<HEAD ||| and <<<<master
3) The code below shows the code in the HEAD commit , original commit and the master commit respectively.
4) Choose and fix the code to use the right one or a combination of both.
5) save and git status will show that both are modified
6) git add file to add to staging area
7) git commit to commit the file

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?
pros - very fast and convenient
cons - git might highlight the conflicts in the same area, but the difference could be somewhere else. or it might be obvious which is the right one to use.
